.TH QEEG_OFFLINE_APP_CLI 1 "January 2026" "qeeg_map" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
qeeg_offline_app_cli \- single-binary offline toolbox that dispatches to qeeg_*_cli tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qeeg_offline_app_cli
.RI <tool> " [args...]"

.B qeeg_offline_app_cli
.BR --list-tools " [--json] [--pretty]"

.B qeeg_offline_app_cli
.BR --install-shims " [DIR] [--force] [--tool TOOL]... [--dry-run]"

.B qeeg_offline_app_cli
.BR --uninstall-shims " [DIR] [--force] [--tool TOOL]... [--dry-run]"

.B qeeg_offline_app_cli
.BR --help
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBqeeg_offline_app_cli\fP is a "toolbox" executable that contains multiple qeeg command-line tools.
It can dispatch to any built-in \fBqeeg_*_cli\fP tool based on the first positional argument.

This is useful when you want to ship a single binary (plus data/output folders), but still be able to run
individual tools.

The offline app can also install small per-tool shims (links or wrapper scripts) so you can invoke
\fBqeeg_*_cli\fP commands directly while only distributing one executable.
.SH MODES
.TP
\fB<tool> [args...]\fP
Dispatch to a built-in tool. The tool name must match a built-in command (see \fB--list-tools\fP).

Example:
.RS
.nf
qeeg_offline_app_cli qeeg_version_cli --full
qeeg_offline_app_cli qeeg_map_cli --help
.fi
.RE
.TP
\fB--list-tools\fP
List built-in tools.
Use \fB--json\fP for machine-readable output and \fB--pretty\fP for formatted JSON.
.TP
\fB--install-shims\fP [\fIDIR\fP]
Install per-tool shims into \fIDIR\fP (default: current directory).
Use \fB--tool\fP to restrict which tools get shims.
Use \fB--force\fP to overwrite existing files.
Use \fB--dry-run\fP to print what would be done without modifying the filesystem.
.TP
\fB--uninstall-shims\fP [\fIDIR\fP]
Remove shims from \fIDIR\fP (default: current directory).
Without \fB--force\fP, uninstall only removes shims that appear to point back to the currently-running
\fBqeeg_offline_app_cli\fP.
Use \fB--tool\fP to restrict which tools are removed.
Use \fB--dry-run\fP to print what would be done without modifying the filesystem.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--json\fP
Output JSON (used with \fB--list-tools\fP).
.TP
\fB--pretty\fP
Pretty-print JSON output (used with \fB--list-tools\fP).
.TP
\fB--tool\fP \fITOOL\fP
Restrict shim install/uninstall operations to a specific tool. May be specified multiple times.
.TP
\fB--force\fP
Overwrite existing files when installing shims, or remove shims more aggressively when uninstalling.
.TP
\fB--dry-run\fP
Show actions without making changes.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Show help.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBQEEG_TOOLBOX\fP
When dispatching a tool, \fBqeeg_offline_app_cli\fP sets \fBQEEG_TOOLBOX\fP (unless already set)
to the path of the toolbox executable.
This allows workflows (for example \fBqeeg_pipeline_cli\fP) to re-invoke other tools through the same
single-binary toolbox.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fP
Success.
.TP
\fB>0\fP
An error occurred. Most tools print a message to standard error.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBqeeg_version_cli\fP(1), \fBqeeg_nf_cli\fP(1)
